I'm Curtis Smith we're at Osuna nursery
where we've been looking at trees we
looked at some shade trees that are
really well adapted for northern New
Mexico now we're in the coniferous trees
which make you feel like you're walking
through the forest these are excellent
plants for northern New Mexico for the
most part but they're good from the
whole state of New Mexico Rick what do
we have right here Curtis we've got a
Bosnian pine it gets about 40 feet tall
and it will take minimum temperatures
down to 30 degrees so it takes pretty
cold temperature so be good way up in
northern New Mexico up on the mountains
so that's a good one 10 feet tall
30 30 feet tall that's right so that's a
pretty nice sized tree not a giant tree
no but really well proportion to a lot
of landscapes so here we've got some
upright juniper these are some that are
useful throughout the state this is good
Hardy in the northern part of the state
and upright form is useful for many
purposes in the landscape and this is
what I expect from an upright juniper
over here however is something that is
kind of unusual for an upright I noticed
it has a spiral form yeah we get these
in and they come in like this and an
expert has gone with a small chainsaw on
taking out everything that isn't spiral
and the homeowner can take a pair
Clippers and just clip these so keep
them like this so they can maintain that
as it gets bigger they'll let it get
bigger but they still maintain that form
to it that is interesting and useful in
some settings in the landscape I see you
have other some that aren't spiraled and
some that are trimmed to be spiral and I
see over here the Austrian black pine
it's a good well adapted tree especially
for lower land type of settings where
the Ponderosa doesn't do well Ponderosa
does good in the mountains this has a
lot of the appearance of a ponderosa
that's better adapted to the lowland
soils good tree that's great tree and a
good windbreak tree in many cases this
one is different oh this is a tan Yoshio
pine and yoshio right it's up well they
grow them in Japan I know in Kyoto and
this one has a single trunk and we've
also got another one over here that's a
little more
looking okay so they're both nice how
big does this get these get about 10
feet 12 feet tall it's appropriate for a
lot of landscapes so that looks like an
interesting tree to have then in here I
see the Japanese black pine and that's a
fast-growing pine tree yeah you can see
the candles on these guys are already a
couple feet tall growing fast and this
grows with a very irregular and kind of
twisting form which is interesting in
the landscape that's right this is a
good tree to have as well and well
adapted here lots of forest just really
pretty in here with all the trees but I
see we're getting close to some of my
favorites the Deardorff Cedars one of
the true Cedars native to the Middle
East so it's fairly well adapted to our
conditions its hardiness though is not
for northern New Mexico they will make
it up to her maybe a little further
north yeah zero degrees it'll take okay
so but this is a tree where the spruce
doesn't do well this will do better and
it has the form a very elegant looking
spruce very graceful weeping form your
tip at the top is really bent over a
little bit so it's a very attractive
tree and I noticed on the tag that says
it's deer resistant that's right and
that's a nice thing about from New
Mexico so we need to know that that's
good if you're going to have deer
problems but it's still an attractive
tree if you don't have to worry about
that I really like it and there are
other types of true cedar on a look over
here this is a Leyland cypress ya leil
Andy Cypress people use these as
windbreaks a lot they plant them in
groupings fairly fast-growing very
attractive makes a good windbreak but
it's also attractive landscape plant and
right over here I see one that looks
maybe somebody think it's sick was
variegated right it has a natural yellow
color in it it's attractive nice to have
and it fit in certain places where the
latham might not be just exactly the
right plant to have and around the
corner here are the little guys
now the mugo Pines Hugo's a nice plant
it's a tree but it doesn't grow tall
these are dwarf and are good for
planning around the foundation for
putting along a sidewalk in situations
like that so good one to have but they
do have a little bit of a problem with
the pine tip moth actually a big problem
this is one that takes some maintenance
too
protected from being damaged my pine
scent moth may require some spraying if
it's used but one of our Extension
Service entomologist is releasing a wasp
a parasitic wasps that doesn't hurt
people but it kills fine to moth so
we're hoping that will take root here
and it'll solve the problem here and
behind it I see the screws the Black
Hill spruce Colorado spruce and over
here you've got the blue Colorado spruce
now these are good trees when we get
into the northern part of the state
these are really good trees and of
course people really like the blue of
the blue Colorado spruce and you've got
some other little guys here these are
not dwarf but these are dwarfed by the
work of people keeping them dwarf it
either bonsai yeah these are bonsai that
we have here at the nursery there must
be a good 10 10 trees in here and we've
got some Trident maples back here maybe
about a dozen of them interesting grove
and we're going to come back and we're
going to do a show here on one side in
the future there's something I'm looking
forward to if that's a talent as an art
that a lot of people are interested in
and don't think they can do it and I
think they can I appreciate the tour I
like the trees and I need people in New
Mexico to know that this is something
they can do so thank you Curtis you're
welcome